Title: The Box Maker
Date: 2019-04-13
Category: Fiction
Tags: bolo'bolo, fiction
Slug: the-box-maker
Status: draft


It had been many years since we had called on the box maker.  Not that any
calling had taken place.  We don't order taku, per se, but word gets around of a
new ibu and the box maker begins his work.

Most taku have been around for generations.  Sometimes, on sad occasions, a
child will inherit his taku from a parent, though most times from a grandparent
or someone from the bolo who left is or hers without heir.

For quite a while wood was scarce. New, raw materials of any kind were hard to
get as new trade routes were established - a process made to take even longer as
some bolo, made aggressive by fear and slower to come to terms with this new
reality, sought monopoly over anything of value.

Taku then, some of the first made, were hammered out of sheet metal skinned from
now immobile carcasses of automobiles. There was little craft in these boxes,
though they were no less loved, no less important. Care and use wore down rough
edges - along with any paint - as ibu stowed and retreived their few, precious
possessions.

---

He sounded out the words as he carved: Long, round vowels made longer with
effort, deep lines etched into surface of the box intended to last generations.
His rough hands followed close behind the chisel.  Brushing away the chipped
wood, he was satisfied with cuts skillfully made through careful practice. This,
he knew, was to be an artifact of significance, an integral part of his
community and culture, and a symbol of what his world had become and what it
cost to get here.

It had been many years since anyone had called upon the box maker, not that any
calling had taken place. Taku aren't ordered, per se, but a need arises, word
gets around, and the box maker begins his work. Every soul gets a box, this goes
without question, there is no need for discussion.
